Add docs of OPA validation in Choreo Connect (#5301)
wso2/docs-apim: en/docs/deploy-and-publish/deploy-on-gateway/choreo-connect/security/api-authorization/opa-validation.md

> # Open Policy Agent (OPA) Validation

Author: Validate Request with Open Policy Agent (OPA)

> The [Open Policy Agent (OPA)](https://openpolicyagent.org/) is an open source, general-purpose policy engine that unifies policy enforcement. In Choreo Connect, you can use OPA to enforce request to the API resources. Choreo Connect uses OPA’s policy evaluation REST API interface to communicate with OPA. Following diagram describes the request/response of OPA validation.

Author: Add more description

!!! tip
    You can deploy OPA server as a sidecar with Choreo Connect Runtime (Enforcer and Router) in a Kubernetes deployment, if you want to improve communication between Enforcer and OPA server.

> <img src="{{base_path}}/assets/img/deploy/mgw/choreo-connect-opa-overview.png" alt="Choreo Connect OPA request flow" width="700px"/>

Reviewer: - Make the image zoomable when clicked
- Add the image size as a % instead of px

| 1       | Client request                                                                                                                                      |
| 2       | Request to validate (i.e. authentication, rate-limiting, OPA validation and other validations) the client request through Enforcer                  |
| 3       | Enforcer calling the OPA server with the JSON payload described in [Request Payload to the OPA server](#request-payload-to-the-opa-server)          |
| 4       | Response from OPA server after validating the request as described in [Response Payload from the OPA server](#response-payload-from-the-opa-server) |
| 5       | Respond the validation status to the Router                                                                                                         | 
| 6,7     | Response from the backend                                                                                                                           |
| 8       | Response to the client                                                                                                                              |

> ## Attaching OPA Policy to an API Resource

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Attaching an OPA Policy to an API Resource
```

By attaching an OPA policy to the API Resource you can enforce OPA validation to that API resource with providing the following values in the policy.

| Name              | Description                                                   | Sample                          |
|-------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------|
| Server URL        | URL of the OPA Server                                         | `http://localhost:8181/v1/data` |
| Policy            | Name of the policy                                            | `abc-policy`                    |
| Rule              | Name of the rule                                              | `xyz-rule`                      |

> | Request Generator | **Optional** fully qualified name of the implementation class | Empty string for Default class  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Request Generator | **Optional** fully qualified name of the implementation class | Empty string for default class  |
```

| Access Token      | **Optional** access token for OPA server authentication       | `my-secret-token`               |

<!-- // TODO: (renuka) link configuring OPA from APIM (still not in 410-alpha) when APIM docs available -->

## Defining Policies in the OPA Server

> You can define you own policy enforcement logic in OPA by using the values provided by the Choreo Connect Enforcer. Following is a sample policy definition in **Rego** to check the header value `x-abcd` should be `ABCD` when HTTP method is `PUT`, otherwise HTTP method can be `POST`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can define your own policy enforcement logic in OPA by using the values provided by the Choreo Connect Enforcer. The following is a sample policy definition in **Rego** to check the header value. `x-abcd` should be `ABCD` when HTTP method is `PUT`, otherwise HTTP method can be `POST`.
```

}
```

### Request Payload to the OPA server

By default Choreo Connect uses the class **OPADefaultRequestGenerator** to generate the request payload to the OPA server. You can configure your policies in OPA server based on the following request format.

!!! Info
    You can have your own **Request Generator Implementation**, you can do so by implementing the interface **OPARequestGenerator**. [Custom OPA Request Generator](#custom-opa-request-generator) in this document describes it in more details.

<!-- TODO: link java src for interface and default class. -->

```json tab='Format'
{
    "input": {
        "path": "<full_path>",
        "vhost": "<VIRTUAL_HOST>",
        "apiName": "<API_name>",
        "apiVersion": "<API_version>",
        "httpVersion": "<HTTP_version>",
        "transportHeaders": {"<HeaderKey>":"<HeaderValue>"},
        "method": "<HTTP_method>",
        "authenticationContext": {
            "tokenType": "<one of [API Key|JWT|Internal Key]>",
            "keyType": "one of [PRODUCTION|SANDBOX]",
            "token": "<raw_auth_token>"
        },
        "requestOrigin": "<client_IP>",
        "pathTemplate": "<resource_template_in_OAS_definition",

>         "prodClusterName": "<production_endpoint_cluster_name>",

Author: Add sadbox one

            "x-request-id": "bc1fd847-0a33-45ab-9911-fcdd3f2f77ec",
            "content-length": "17",
            ":method": "POST",
            "x-forwarded-proto": "https",
            ":scheme": "https",
            "foo": "bar",
            ":path": "/t/foo.com/v2/1.0.5/foo?hello=world",
            "content-type": "application/x-www-form-urlencoded",
            ":authority": "localhost:9095",
            "user-agent": "curl/7.77.0",
            "accept": "application/json"
        },
        "method": "POST",
        "authenticationContext": {
            "tokenType": "JWT",
            "keyType": "PRODUCTION",
            "token": "eyJ0eXAiOiJKV1QiLC..."
        },
        "requestOrigin": "172.19.0.1",
        "pathTemplate": "/foo",
        "prodClusterName": "carbon.super_clusterProd_localhost_SwaggerPetstore1.0.5",
        "orgId": "carbon.super"
    }
}
```

### Response Payload from the OPA server

Same as request generation Choreo Connect uses the class **OPADefaultRequestGenerator** to validate the response from OPA. So for the default implementation, you have to write your OPA policies with the following response format.

!!! Info

>     You can have your own **Response Valiation Implementation**, you can do so by implementing the interface **OPARequestGenerator**. [Custom OPA Request Generator](#custom-opa-request-generator) in this document describes it in more details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    If required, you can have your own **Response Valiation Implementation** by implementing the interface **OPARequestGenerator**. For more information, see [Custom OPA Request Generator](#custom-opa-request-generator).
```

```json tab='Format'
{
    "result": <BOOLEAN_POLICY_RESULT>
}
```

```json tab='Sample'
{
    "result": true
}
```

## Custom OPA Request Generator

1.  Create a Java project with `org.wso2.choreo.connect.enforcer.commons` dependency.
    -   For Apache Maven, use the following.
        ```xml
        <dependency>
            <groupId>org.wso2.choreo.connect</groupId>
            <artifactId>org.wso2.choreo.connect.enforcer.commons</artifactId>
            <version>1.1.0</version>
        </dependency>
        ```

2.  Use the following interface to implement the Custom OPA Request Generator.

    ```java tab='Interface'
    public interface OPARequestGenerator {}
    ```

>     Here is the sample filter implementation that only returns request headers to the OPA.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Here is the sample filter implementation that only returns request headers to OPA.
```

>     ```java tab='Sample Implantation'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ```java tab='Sample Implementation'
```

    public class CustomOPARequestGenerator implements OPARequestGenerator {
        @Override
        public String generateRequest(String policyName, String rule, Map<String, Object> advancedProperties,
                                  RequestContext requestContext) throws OPASecurityException {
            JSONObject requestPayload = new JSONObject();
            JSONObject inputPayload = new JSONObject();
            requestPayload.put("input", inputPayload);

            inputPayload.put("headers", requestContext.getHeaders());
            return requestPayload.toString();
        }

        @Override
        public boolean validateResponse(String policyName, String rule, String opaResponse, RequestContext requestContext)
                throws OPASecurityException {
            JSONObject response = new JSONObject(opaResponse);
            try {
                return response.getBoolean("result");
            } catch (JSONException e) {
                throw new OPASecurityException(500, "Internal Server Error",
                        "Error while evaluating remote authorization response", e);
            }
        }
    }
    ```

> 3.  Since we use Java SPI (Service Provider Interface), we need to provide the provider configuration file `META-INF/services/org.wso2.choreo.connect.enforcer.commons.opa.OPARequestGenerator`. If you are using Apache Maven, create the file inside the `<PROJECT>/src/main/resources` directory. The content of the file needs to be the qualified class name of the filter implementation. For example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3.  Provide the provider configuration.

     As you use a Java SPI (Service Provider Interface), you need to provide the provider configuration file `META-INF/services/org.wso2.choreo.connect.enforcer.commons.opa.OPARequestGenerator`. 
     
     If you are using Apache Maven, create the file inside the `<PROJECT>/src/main/resources` directory. Add the qualified class name of the filter implementation as the content of the file. For example:
```

Author: @Mariangela Could you check the following? I changed the suggestion a little bit.

```suggestion
3.  Provide the OPARequestGenerator provider configuration.

    Choreo Connect uses Java SPI (Service Provider Interface) for loading the request generator implementation. Hence, you need to provide the provider configuration file `META-INF/services/org.wso2.choreo.connect.enforcer.commons.opa.OPARequestGenerator`. 
     
    If you are using Apache Maven, create the file inside the `<PROJECT>/src/main/resources` directory. Add the qualified class name of the OPARequestGenerator implementation as the content of the file. For example:
```

    ```text
    org.example.tests.CustomOPARequestGenerator
    ```

4.  Build the project and create the JAR file. For Apache Maven, use the following command.
    ```bash
    mvn clean install
    ```

> 5.  Mount the JAR file containing the Custom OPA Request Generator to the `/home/wso2/lib/dropins`. (If you are using the docker-compose file within the distribution, then add the JAR file to `docker-compose/resources/enforcer/dropins` directory.)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5.  Mount the JAR file containing the Custom OPA Request Generator to the `/home/wso2/lib/dropins` folder. 

       If you are using the docker-compose file within the distribution, then add the JAR file to `docker-compose/resources/enforcer/dropins` directory.
```

> 5.  Mount the JAR file containing the Custom OPA Request Generator to the `/home/wso2/lib/dropins`. (If you are using the docker-compose file within the distribution, then add the JAR file to `docker-compose/resources/enforcer/dropins` directory.)

Reviewer: Please make sure that the indentation in my suggestion is correct so that that content moves to a new line.

Also in what instances will the `/home/wso2/lib/dropins` folder be used? It is better to mention that as well
